Title: Cultural Studies 1.3
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_v3h5zpSWPY

Well, last but not least for today, we'll explore a key concept in cultural studies, the language of culture. The language is far more than a tool for communication. It's a powerful system through which societies express their beliefs, values, and ways of seeing the world. By studying language in its cultural context, we uncover how people from different parts of the world think, behave, and interact with each other. So what is the language of culture? At its core, the language of culture means that language encodes cultural meanings, social norms, and shared experiences. Language doesn't just describe reality, it shapes it. The the words we use and how we use them influence how we understand the world. From the scholarly perspectives, the language of culture can be from different angles. First one, let's talk about CPOF's hypothesis. Edward Cpier and Benjamin Lee Warf argued that language influences thought and perception. Different languages categorize reality in unique ways leading speakers to experience the world differently. Next, here is a table as you see from your slides which gives five different perspectives to the language of culture. First one goes to Sepia Warf's hypothesis. So the main idea of this hypothesis is language influences thought and perception. Different languages categorize reality in a unique way. For example, in Kazak culture we say specific terms to the word horse like and so on. But in other languages horse can be defined in a appropriate just one name like horse in English, lo in Russian and chvel in French. Second perspective is all about politeness and hierarchy in language. The main idea of this perspective is language reflects social hierarchies through formal and informal speech. For example, if we take Japanese or British people, they honors change based on their social status. When they apply an address to each other, they say Mr., Mrs. or sir, for example, Mr. Smith and so on. And if we compare this example with Kz culture, usually we just say which means high, highly respectful or honored. Yes. To someone's name. For example, we say like dear parent something like that. Next perspective is hospitality expressed in language which means language and hospitality manifests and it uh in language and its rituals reinforcing social bonds. For example, as a welcome gesture guest offered kumus which is may milk or barak for Russian a pinch of salt with some bread. Next perspective, idioms and values. Idioms reflect cultural values shaping how different societies approach life, work, and relationship. For example, for American people, they usually used to say time is money, which reflects the value placed on efficiency, productivity, and the fast-paced nature of American work culture. However, for the British people, they usually used to say to each other, "Yes, keep calm and carry on." It reflects the British value and perseverance, highlighting resilience and self-control. The final one is cross-cultural challenges. The main idea of cross-cultural challenges are language barriers, non-verbal differences, conflicting values, different kinds of stereotypes, different attitudes which can hinder collaboration. For example, in Saudi Arabia, meetings often begin with discussions about family, health, and well-being. Business decisions can take time, and building trust through personal connection is crucial before any formal agreements are made. However, in South Korea, when greeting a business partner, a bow is often used in addition to handshake. The younger or lower ranking person should bow slightly while the senior or higher ranking person may offer a handshake. For example, voca culture handshaking is also welcomed as well. Well, what do you think? Why does this matter? Studying the language of culture helps us firstly to understand how societies construct and interpret reality. Secondly communicate more effectively across cultural boundaries. And the last one develop sensitivity and respect in a globalized world. To sum up, language is a living archive of culture. By studying the language of culture, we unlock insights into how people think, relate, and live in the world. This understanding enrich cultural studies, linguistics, anthropology and everyday intercultural interactions. Well, this is the end of our lecture. Thank you for your attention.