Title: Cultural Studies 1.2
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TTsgvJlvZ78

The morphology of culture is a branch of cultural studies that specifically analyzes the structure of a culture as a social phenomenon, focusing on the regularities on its composition and the processes by which forms of cultural phenomena are created. To systematize the knowledge gained from the study of cultural processes and phenomena, scholars often apply classification methods similar to those used in the natural sciences by employing a range of methodologies and interdicciplinary approaches. They aim to organize a diversity of cultural components into a coherent framework. Essentially, morphology views culture as a system composed of structural elements. It describes the configuration of these elements, identifies their differences and examines the interreationships among them. Furthermore, the morphological approach reveals the distinct features of various cultures forms. It also investigates how history, sociology, ethnicity, and geography influence cultural structures. In doing so, it highlights the universal characteristics of a culture as a dynamic and multi-dimensional phenomenon. At the initial stage of classification, culture is generally divided into material and spiritual or sometimes it's called non-material culture. In early civilizations, however, these concepts were inseparable. Primitive societies were only beginning to become aware of their place in the world and didn't distinguish themselves from the surrounding natural environment. This unity of the physical and metaphysical realms is known in scholy discourse as synretatism. This unity with the surrounding world gave rise to totemism and animism. The identification of humans with animals and attribution of human qualities to inanimate objects. Subsequently, the development of tools and craftsmanship revealed a new perspective on the world. Humans gained the ability to transform objects and create something new. This marked the emergence of material culture. At its core lies a physical object that has been transformed into an artifact imbued with specific functions and characteristics determined by humans. As you see on this slide, material culture consists of concrete and tangible objects. Tangible objects are seen and touchable. We can touch them like tools, implements, furniture, books, buildings and they always man-made. Regarding non-material culture or spiritual culture, it consists of intangible and abstract objects. Intangible we say untouchable that you cannot see but you can feel them like customs, traditions, habits, manners, beliefs, language, art and literature. Of course, religion and lore as well. Next, human and cultural interaction or the two-tiered structure of cultural interaction. The structure of the interaction between human beings and culture is traditionally described as two tiers. The first level, the specialized level which is divided into two parts. The cumulative component which is encompassing economics, politics, science and art, lore and philosophy and translational component including education, mass media and social institutions. The second level, the everyday level, which includes daily life, traditional morals and customs, general morality, everyday perception of the world, simple technologies and primitive aesthetics. Research methods in cultural studies. So to study culture researchers borrow a variety of methods from natural sciences, history and linguistics including firstly the genetic method which focuses on the origins and development of cultural forms. Second method is the structural functional method which analyzes the organization and functions of cultural objects. Next one is the dynamic method which examines changes in characteristics over time. Firstly, the historical method which describes records, events and phenomena in chronological order and analyzes factual data. The comparative method, it identifies similarities and differences among cultures and their mutual influences. And the next one is simotic method which describes the system of signs and symbols used in various cultures. And final one is the technological method which studies physical and material objects. Next one the structure of contemporary culture. The structure of contemporary culture is becoming increasingly complex due to the processes of globalization and the rapid development of advanced technologies. As a result, we are witnessing a reassessment of values across societies. The classical categorization of culture traditionally distinguishes three primary types for culture, elite culture or high culture and mass culture. For culture, it refers to the traditional customs, practices, and expressions passed down through generations, especially in rural or indigenous communities. It reflects local identities, lifestyles, oral traditions, crafts, rituals, and values. For example, nu celebrations for kzak culture or kazakural epics or you may know youths or youth craftsmanship. which is regarded to UNESCO heritage list. Yeah. Elite culture or high culture. This type of culture involves artistic and intellectual expressions that are usually appreciated by a smaller more educated part of society. It includes classical music, fine arts, philosophy, literature and opera. For example, as you know in Aano we have Aano Opera House Tate Gallery which is in the United Kingdom exhibitions different types of exhibitions. Mass culture mass cultural refers to cultural products designed for mass consumption that is largely commercial and medadriven including pop music, television, cinema, fashion, internet trends and social media content. As an example, we can say Tik Tok trends today, K-pop, viral memes, and so on. Emerging cultural phenomena. A new phenomenon that emerged in the 20th century is ecological culture. The impact of human civilization on the planet has become so profound that it has necessitated the creation of a distinct scientific field and a new ethical framework for human nature interaction. Ecological culture. It refers to the ethical and behavioral norms of interaction between humans and the environment. It emphasizes sustainable living, ecological awareness and the protection of natural ecosystems. For example, sustainable living, environmental ethics, climate activism, green economy and so on. Second type is digital culture which is really newly emerging today. Another area which acquires through the study of digital culture. The influence of artificial intelligence on society as well as the transformation of knowledge acquisition methods through high-speed information exchange technologies marks a significant shift in cultural development. Digital culture encompasses the practices, norms and forms of communication that have emerged from digital technology and internet usage. Real life examples, digital communication, AI tools, online art, virtual museums. Next one is global digital cultural interaction. The blending and the collision of cultures in the global digital space is an active and highly unpredictable process. Scholars around the world closely monitor its dynamics and implications. This refers to the interaction, fusion and conflict of cultural values and traditions that occur in the globalized digital environment. And this phenomenon can lead to the creation of hybrid identities as well as cultural misunderstandings or clashes. For instance, we can say fusion and conflict of cultural values in digital space in especially in cross-cultural media uh as you as you know Netflix channels, K dramas, Turkish dramas or online debates as a cultural appropriation and identity politics.